Welcome back.
When I first started learning about functional programming I learned a lot of terms and interesting
ways to organize functions but I never really understood the purpose of it.
It kind of felt to mathy where I'm just doing equations and doing all these things but just to be clever
with no actual understanding of what the use case is.
So I have an exercise here that I hope will show you why functional programming can make you a better
programmer.
Now this exercise you've been hired by Amazon and Amazon needs to implement a shopping feature for this
exercise so we have a user that has a name.
It's an active user.
It also has a cart array and a purchases array and I want you to implement whichever way you want these
features.
One is that this user can purchase an item let's say they can purchase an item that has a name property
that will be a string of some sort and then also a price property that well we'll just be a number of
the price of whatever item it is that they're buying what I want you to do is to allow a user to purchase
something so purchase let's say item and a user is able to purchase an item which what that means is
it allows you to add items to a cart.
So we add an item object into the cart.
It also adds a 3 percent tax to the item in the cart.
It allows you to buy the item that is move the item from cart to purchases and then finally once everything
has been purchased we empty the cart.
We return to an empty array now with these four things or functions.
I want you to create this functionality however you think is best and do it now without me giving you
the answer because we're going to go through some functional programming concepts over the next couple
of videos and at the end I'm going to return to this example and show you how I'll implement all the
things that we've learned into this example and then you can compare what you did vs. what I did to
see where you can improve where you can add more functional programming concepts and hopefully at the
end of it all show you how we can make this work really really well.
With functional programming stop by the way if you're really keen and you want to experiment well you
can add bonus features like accepting refunds which allows you to remove things from purchases or track
user history that is anything that the user does.
Well you can track their history so that you can perhaps look at user logs and see if they did anything
wrong.
All right.
I know that this example isn't exactly 100 percent clear it's not important that you get a right 100
percent remember.
Just try to devise a program that does this.
It can be a simplistic or complicated as possible and we will revisit it at the end of this section.
I'll see in the next one maybe.